Some of the most common Mail User Agents (MUA) we have are Yahoo, Outlook, Gmail, Hotmail. When sending an electronic mail, right when the user presses send, the MUA sends the email to the Mail Delivery Agent (MDA). If the sender and receiver are from the same area, then they use the same MDA. But if the email has to be sent through a Wider Area Network (WAN), it has to go through the Internet cloud that consists of multiple mail servers, DNS and routers. Some transmitters could get lost or take longer in the process because of the congestion in the Internet. To prevent the delays, e-mails have to be properly encapsulated with DNS, IP address, and sequence numbers so MDAs could send the email in the right direction. Having the correct DNS will allow the email to pass through firewalls and spam filters. To further prevent delays, e-mail service providers often have their own mail servers that checks which MDA is available. It goes through the host and host chains, in which each MDA checks the IP address that is located on the header of the encapsulated data hence the next MDA could be identified. Most emails take the path that is dependent on server availability. Eventually the Mail Transfer Agent (MTA) will locate the local domain information that then asks the appropriate DNS for proper information. When sending and receiving e-mail using a standard client such as Outlook or Outlook Express, the e-mail is sent using a Simple Mail Transport Protocol (SMTP). The e-mail is sent from cloud machine to server, which is located on the Internet, which then goes through every email server until it lands on the email server of the recipient. The recipient then uses email server could POP3 or IMAP4 - which are servers used for receiving mail. Then the receiver replies through SMTP again, it goes across the Internet through SMTP then arrives at the email server of the initial sender. E-mail is then in the client machine after recipient accesses the e-mail through the Internet and uses the email server POP3. On the other hand, when using a web page client, the sender uses HTTP, instead of SMTP - which is a standard protocol to connecting to a web page on the Internet. The e-mail server needs to support the web mail. The sender then uses a browser such as Google Chrome, Firefox, Internet Explorer then connects to the Internet then finally composes the e-mail on the Internet. The e-mail is transferred using SMTP. The receiver has to use POP3 or IMAP4 to get the e-mail. Another option is for the receiver to access his e-mail on the Internet using http. The e-mail stays on the internet server but is not transferred to the receiver.
