Social Networking is a very beneficial tool, however it is very seriously be overused. It is an exceptional tool that brings people in or to point them in other directions. Through these networks, important news can be spread right away. Its instantaneous element is what makes it so great. It is a useful tool, but it has to be used the right way. However, there are a few quirks when people use social networks. In earlier times, people used it professionally - such as for the sole purpose of promotion but not on a personal basis. Older generations emphasis on the fact that people would talk face to face then than now where people prefer to talk through machines. incoming personal opinion: call me old fashion, but I prefer the older generation then if that is the case. Facebook and Twitter are the perfect examples for microblog social networks. Facebook was formed in 2004 by a bunch of Harvard students; whereas Twitter in 2006. The main difference between the two is that users can only use 140 characters to compose a tweet on Twitter. Twitter opens networks by connecting people with one another from around the world. Because of the 140 character limit posts are shorter but can be much reliable and relevant when they are more profound or practical, such as school, weather, political announcements. They could serve as a recommendation service, as a user could follow the people they value hence the recommendation becomes more useful. Users could also crowdsource where a user asks a network a question that could be answered by anyone and there would be no need to follow a lot of people. Facebook is a hundred billion dollar website and is the largest social networking site in the world. There about a billion users, and a bit a million new users sign up every 6 months. The home of Facebook is in Northern California - graffiti, touch screen technology on wall spaces, vending machines that sell tech stuff instead of soda, open bars and arcade games could be found in the building. The average age of their employee is 26 years old and one engineer is in charge for every 1 million users. But the biggest problem Facebook has is their storage. Facebook has a 300,000 square feet center located in Primeville, Oregon. The information of every Facebook user is stored in servers and memory banks, making up 21 million feet of fibre optic cable in the data center. The Internet is a physical building interconnected through miles of finer and cable all throughout the world that share data back and forth. Facebook has 30 megawatts of electricity on tap hence they should never run out of power hence huge diesel generators for back-up. Servers produce so much heat so they need constant cooling by the heat sink. The cool air from Oregon is then sucked in, filtered and mixed with warm air to regulate the temperature. The fine mist controls the humidity. The chilled air sinks to the back of the servers, which stops them from overheating. Fun facts, on April 19, 2008, Facebook became a dominant network on the Internet. There were about 500,000,000 active Facebook users in 2011. 80% of friend requests are accepted. Because of the huge amount of storage, the data center is more familiar with the term petabyte; that every server wrap contains 500 terabytes. About 600 billion users log in everyday, thousands of servers arrive at site daily. About 48% of 18-34 year olds check Facebook right when they wake up. 57% of people talk more online than they do in real life (which is just really sad *personal opinion).
