The first search engine before was called archie, which is basically archive without the letter v. Some of the search engines in the 90s were Excite, Aliweb, Infoseek, Altavista, Web Crawler, Lycos, Yahoo and Hotbot. The Web Crawler was a program that built networks through the sites and images searched for, and the indexes or other pages that are connected to the sites search for that then connects it all together; which is how browsers work even today. On the other hand, Yahoo is a bit different as it is more of a directory. In 1994, they wanted to enter every site into their directory by hand. By June 1994, they have entered 2,800 websites, December 1994 - 10,000 websites then by December 1995 - 100,000 websites. In 1994, it was still possible to publish a physical book that listed all the sites in the Internet (try checking Amazon). Google started out as a search engine in 1996, and it was first called BackRub. The key to their success were hyperlinks. The basis of Google search is that creators made an assumption that if a lot of websites link to another website then that sites must be a pretty good resource. *incoming sudden realization* that is why wikipedia is always at the top of the results because it has a lot of websites connected to it even teachers and professors say it is not a reliable source. oh mind blown). When one searches in Google, he or she is actually not searching the web, but index of the web of Google. Software programs called are like spiders because they fetch a few web pages then follow the links on those webpages then it goes on. The pages are stored in machines hence when one types something on the search engine, it searches the index of Google to look for every page that has those terms showing thousands of results. However, Google chooses which results to display and is decided after asking questions - around 200 questions. The questions may be like: how many times has the page been accesses using the same keywords? Google also considers the quality of the website, by using PageRank. Results show the title, link, and snippet of text so one can see if that is what they are searching for. There are also links to similar pages, most recent version of Google of that page, and other related searches found at the bottom of the page. There may be ads and search results determined by what one most likely wants to see, which is based on past searches. The Search Engine Optimization (SEO) has the Google algorithm. Hence top results are not always the best results, they are just the most linked to. People can pay money to boost their rank and as Google changes their system, they have to pay more to keep the consistency of the page rank. Hence the less likeliness of showing the best reliable sources is not the fault of Google but the fault of the consumer, because the main goal of search engine of Google is that if the content of the website is much better and more relevant, then the page rank should be higher.
